docs: updated documentation for Configuration component. (#237)
mautic/developer-documentation-new: docs/plugins/config.rst

.. note:: The default value must match the value's type for Mautic to typecast and transform appropriately. For example, if there isn't a specific default value to declare, define an empty array, ``[]``, for an array type; zero, ``0``, for an integer type; ``TRUE`` or ``FALSE`` for boolean types; and so forth. Services leveraging parameters should accept and handle ``NULL`` for integer and string types, excluding ``0``.

.. note:: Parameters aren't exposed to the UI by default. See :ref:`components/config:Configuration` for more information.

Custom config parameters
************************

> You can define custom configuration parameters in your plugin to support configurable features, such as enabling or disabling functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can define custom configuration parameters in your Plugin to support configurable features, such as enabling or disabling functionality.
```

Vale fix

> Mautic plugins allow you to define these parameters for use within your plugin’s code. Store these parameters in ``app/config/local.php``, and define their default values in the plugin’s own config file to ensure stability and avoid errors. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Mautic plugins allow you to define these parameters for use within your plugin’s code. Store these parameters in ``config/local.php``, and define their default values in the plugin’s own config file to ensure stability and avoid errors. 
```
The path has changed in M5 I think.

> Mautic plugins allow you to define these parameters for use within your plugin’s code. Store these parameters in ``app/config/local.php``, and define their default values in the plugin’s own config file to ensure stability and avoid errors. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mautic Plugins allow you to define these parameters for use within your Plugin’s code. Store these parameters in ``app/config/local.php``, and define their default values in the plugin’s own config file to ensure stability and avoid errors. 
```

Vale fix (John fixed the path change in a separate comment)

> To avoid errors during cache compilation or when accessing parameters directly from the container without checking for their existence, always define custom parameters in the `plugin’s config file <https://devdocs.mautic.org/en/latest/plugins/config.html#parameters-config-items>`_. This guarantees that the parameter exists and has a fallback value.

Reviewer: Please use the proper sphinx reference link here, we never use a link like this in the documentation.

> To add these configuration options in the configuration page, you’ll need:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add these configuration options in Mautic's configuration section, you’ll need:
```

I think this might be better wording, as far as I understand the context.

> - An `event subscriber <https://devdocs.mautic.org/en/latest/plugins/event_listeners.html>`_ to register the configuration.

Reviewer: Please use the correct sphinx document reference here, we never link like this in the docs.

> - A `form type <https://devdocs.mautic.org/en/latest/components/forms.html>`_ that defines the fields.

Reviewer: As above for the document referencing.

- A specific view for rendering the form.

.. note::

>    To translate the plugin’s tab label in the configuration form, include a translation key like ``mautic.config.tab.helloworld_config`` in the plugin’s ``messages.ini`` file. Replace ``helloworld_config`` with the ``formAlias`` used when registering the form in the event subscriber.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   To translate the Plugin’s tab label in the configuration form, include a translation key like ``mautic.config.tab.helloworld_config`` in the Plugin’s ``messages.ini`` file. Replace ``helloworld_config`` with the ``formAlias`` used when registering the form in the event subscriber.
```

Config event subscriber
=======================

> This allows plugins to interact with Mautic's configuration events. It listens to two important events: ``ConfigEvents::CONFIG_ON_GENERATE`` and ``ConfigEvents::CONFIG_PRE_SAVE``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This allows Plugins to interact with Mautic's configuration events. It listens to two important events: ``ConfigEvents::CONFIG_ON_GENERATE`` and ``ConfigEvents::CONFIG_PRE_SAVE``.
```

                ConfigEvents::CONFIG_ON_GENERATE => ['onConfigGenerate', 0],
                ConfigEvents::CONFIG_PRE_SAVE    => ['onConfigSave', 0]
            ];
        }

        /**
         * @param ConfigBuilderEvent $event
         */
        public function onConfigGenerate(ConfigBuilderEvent $event)
        {
            $event->addForm(
                [
                    'formAlias'  => 'helloworld_config',
                    'formTheme'  => 'HelloWorldBundle:FormTheme\Config',
                    'parameters' => $event->getParametersFromConfig('HelloWorldBundle')
                ]
            );
        }

        /**
         * @param ConfigEvent $event
         */
        public function onConfigSave(ConfigEvent $event)
        {
            /** @var array $values */
            $values = $event->getConfig();

            // Manipulate the values
            if (!empty($values['helloworld_config']['custom_config_option'])) {
                $values['helloworld_config']['custom_config_option'] = htmlspecialchars($values['helloworld_config']['custom_config_option']);
            }

            // Set updated values 
            $event->setConfig($values);
        }

>     }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <?php

    declare(strict_types=1);

    namespace MauticPlugin\HelloWorldBundle\EventListener;
    use Mautic\ConfigBundle\Event\ConfigEvent;
    use Mautic\ConfigBundle\ConfigEvents;
    use Mautic\ConfigBundle\Event\ConfigBuilderEvent;
    use Symfony\Component\EventDispatcher\EventSubscriberInterface;

    final class ConfigSubscriber extends EventSubscriberInterface
    {
        /**
         * @return mixed[]
         */
        static public function getSubscribedEvents(): array
        {
            return [
                ConfigEvents::CONFIG_ON_GENERATE => ['onConfigGenerate', 0],
                ConfigEvents::CONFIG_PRE_SAVE    => ['onConfigSave', 0]
            ];
        }

        public function onConfigGenerate(ConfigBuilderEvent $event): void
        {
            $event->addForm(
                [
                    'formAlias'  => 'helloworld_config',
                    'formTheme'  => 'HelloWorldBundle:FormTheme\Config',
                    'parameters' => $event->getParametersFromConfig('HelloWorldBundle')
                ]
            );
        }

        public function onConfigSave(ConfigEvent $event): void
        {
            /** @var array $values */
            $values = $event->getConfig();
            // Manipulate the values
            if (!empty($values['helloworld_config']['custom_config_option'])) {
                $values['helloworld_config']['custom_config_option'] = htmlspecialchars($values['helloworld_config']['custom_config_option']);
            }
            // Set updated values 
            $event->setConfig($values);
        }
    }
```

Subscribed events
-----------------

The event subscriber listens to the following events:

- ``ConfigEvents::CONFIG_ON_GENERATE``:

>   This event is dispatched when the configuration form is built. This allows the plugin to inject its own tab and configuration options.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This event is dispatched when the configuration form is built. This allows the Plugin to inject its own tab and configuration options.
```

There are other vale issues here for active tense but it's not being flagged up.

Author: It's also not being flagged on my end, but does this solve it?

Mautic dispatches this event when it builds the configuration form. This allows the Plugin to inject its own tab and configuration options.

Reviewer: Sounds good! Sometimes it's due to a vale off command, but sometimes it's just that there's too many other Vale issues and it's stopped reporting them.

Author: Thank you!

- ``ConfigEvents::CONFIG_PRE_SAVE``:

>   This event is triggered before the form values are rendered and saved to the ``local.php`` file. This allows the plugin to clean up or modify the data before writing it to ``local.php``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This event is triggered before the form values are rendered and saved to the ``local.php`` file. This allows the Plugin to clean up or modify the data before writing it to ``local.php``.
```

Also needs writing into active voice.

Author: And this?

 Mautic triggers this event before it renders the form values and saves them to the ``local.php`` file.

Reviewer: Sounds good, great job!

> Generate plugin configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. vale off

Generate Plugin configuration
```

Add a .. vale on after the heading underline.

---------------------------------

> To register plugin’s configuration details during the ``ConfigEvents::CONFIG_ON_GENERATE event``, call the ``addForm()`` method on the ``ConfigBuilderEvent`` object. The method expects an array with the following elements:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To register Plugin’s configuration details during the ``ConfigEvents::CONFIG_ON_GENERATE event``, call the ``addForm()`` method on the ``ConfigBuilderEvent`` object. The method expects an array with the following elements:
```

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1

    * - Key
      - Description
    * - ``formAlias``
      - The alias of the form type class that defines the expected form elements.
    * - ``formTheme``
      - The view that formats the configuration form elements, e.g., ``HelloWorldBundle:FormTheme\Config``.
    * - ``parameters``
      - An array of custom configuration elements. ``Use $event->getParametersFromConfig('HelloWorldBundle')`` to retrieve them from the plugin’s configuration file.

Modify configuration before saving

> --------------------------------------

Reviewer: Please fix the underline. It should not overhang the text.

> To modify the form data before saving, use the ``ConfigEvents::CONFIG_PRE_SAVE event``. This  event is triggered just before values are saved to the ``local.php`` file, allowing the plugin to adjust them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To modify the form data before saving, use the ``ConfigEvents::CONFIG_PRE_SAVE event``. This event is triggered just before values are saved to the ``local.php`` file, allowing the Plugin to adjust them.
```

Register the event subscriber

> --------------------------

Reviewer: Please fix the heading underline, it should be the full length of the text above it.

> Register the subscriber through the plugin’s configuration in the ``services[events]`` `section <https://devdocs.mautic.org/en/latest/plugins/config.html#service-config-items>`_. This ensures that the plugin listens for the events and reacts accordingly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Register the subscriber through the Plugin’s configuration in the ``services[events]`` `section <https://devdocs.mautic.org/en/latest/plugins/config.html#service-config-items>`_. This ensures that the plugin listens for the events and reacts accordingly.
```

Please also fix the link. Use the sphinx link reference, we don't link like this.

Author: How does this look?

``services[events]`` in :ref:`plugins/config:Service config items`

Reviewer: When you build the docs with `make html` and check it when it renders, does the link work? That's what you should be doing to verify these things.

Author: Yes, it does😊.

Config form

> =============

Reviewer: Please fix the heading underline, see earlier comments.

> The form type is used to generate the form fields in the main configuration form. See the `Forms documentation <https://devdocs.mautic.org/en/latest/components/forms.html>`_ for more information about using form types.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The form type is used to generate the fields in the main configuration form. See the `Forms documentation <https://devdocs.mautic.org/en/latest/components/forms.html>`_ for more information about using form types.
```

Please also fix the link. See earlier comments.

> Remember that the form type must be registered through the plugin’s config in the ``services[forms]`` `section <https://devdocs.mautic.org/en/latest/plugins/config.html#service-config-items>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remember that the form type must be registered through the Plugin’s config in the ``services[forms]`` `section <https://devdocs.mautic.org/en/latest/plugins/config.html#service-config-items>`_
```

Please also fix the link. See earlier comments.

.

> Below is an example of a form type class that adds a custom configuration option to the plugin's configuration form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is an example of a form type class that adds a custom configuration option to the Plugin's configuration form.
```

.. code-block:: php

>     <?php
>     // plugins/HelloWorldBundle/Form/Type/ConfigType.php
> 
>     namespace MauticPlugin\HelloWorldBundle\Form\Type;
> 
>     use Symfony\Component\Form\AbstractType;
>     use Symfony\Component\Form\FormBuilderInterface;
> 
>     /**
>      * Class ConfigType
>      */
>     class ConfigType extends AbstractType
>     {
>         /**
>          * @param FormBuilderInterface $builder
>          * @param array                $options
>          */
>         public function buildForm(FormBuilderInterface $builder, array $options)
>         {
>             $builder->add(
>                 'custom_config_option',
>                 'text',
>                 array(
>                     'label' => 'plugin.helloworld.config.custom_config_option',
>                     'data'  => $options['data']['custom_config_option'],
>                     'attr'  => array(
>                         'tooltip' => 'plugin.helloworld.config.custom_config_option_tooltip'
>                     )
>                 )
>             );
>         }
> 
>         /**
>          * {@inheritdoc}
>          */
>         public function getName()
>         {
>             return 'helloworld_config';
>         }
>     }

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    <?php
    // plugins/HelloWorldBundle/Form/Type/ConfigType.php

    namespace MauticPlugin\HelloWorldBundle\Form\Type;

    use Symfony\Component\Form\AbstractType;
    use Symfony\Component\Form\FormBuilderInterface;

    final class ConfigType extends AbstractType
    {
        /**
         * @param mixed[] $options
         */
        public function buildForm(FormBuilderInterface $builder, array $options): void
        {
            $builder->add(
                'custom_config_option',
                'text',
                [
                    'label' => 'plugin.helloworld.config.custom_config_option',
                    'data'  => $options['data']['custom_config_option'],
                    'attr'  => [
                        'tooltip' => 'plugin.helloworld.config.custom_config_option_tooltip'
                    ]
                ]
            );
        }
    }
```
Making the code more modern and compatible with newer Symfony versions

Config template

> =============

Reviewer: Please fix the heading underline. See earlier comments.

> Registering a form theme as ``HelloWorldBundle:FormTheme\Config`` in the event listener tells the ConfigBundle to look in the HelloWorldBundle’s ``Views/FormTheme/Config`` folder for templates. Specifically, it will look for a template named ``_config_{formAlias}_widget.html.php``, where ``{formAlias}`` is the same as the ``formAlias`` set in the plugin’s ``ConfigEvents::CONFIG_ON_GENERATE`` event listener.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Registering a form theme as ``HelloWorldBundle:FormTheme\Config`` in the event listener tells the ConfigBundle to look in the HelloWorldBundle’s ``Resources/views/FormTheme/Config`` folder for templates. Specifically, it will look for a template named ``_config_{formAlias}_widget.html.twig``, where ``{formAlias}`` is the same as the ``formAlias`` set in the plugin’s ``ConfigEvents::CONFIG_ON_GENERATE`` event listener.
```

> Registering a form theme as ``HelloWorldBundle:FormTheme\Config`` in the event listener tells the ConfigBundle to look in the HelloWorldBundle’s ``Views/FormTheme/Config`` folder for templates. Specifically, it will look for a template named ``_config_{formAlias}_widget.html.php``, where ``{formAlias}`` is the same as the ``formAlias`` set in the plugin’s ``ConfigEvents::CONFIG_ON_GENERATE`` event listener.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Registering a form theme as ``HelloWorldBundle:FormTheme\Config`` in the event listener tells the ConfigBundle to look in the HelloWorldBundle’s ``Views/FormTheme/Config`` folder for templates. Specifically, it will look for a template named ``_config_{formAlias}_widget.html.php``, where ``{formAlias}`` is the same as the ``formAlias`` set in the Plugin’s ``ConfigEvents::CONFIG_ON_GENERATE`` event listener.
```

The template should be structured in a panel format to match the rest of the configuration UI.

Below is an example of how the template should be structured:

> .. code-block:: php
> 
>     <?php
>     // plugins/HelloWorldBundle/Views/FormTheme/Config/_config_helloworld_config_widget.html.php
> 
>     ?>
> 
>     <div class="panel panel-primary">
>         <div class="panel-heading">
>             <h3 class="panel-title"><?php echo $view['translator']->trans('mautic.config.tab.helloworld_config'); ?></h3>
>         </div>
>         <div class="panel-body">
>             <?php foreach ($form->children as $f): ?>
>                 <div class="row">
>                     <div class="col-md-6">
>                         <?php echo $view['form']->row($f); ?>
>                     </div>
>                 </div>
>             <?php endforeach; ?>
>         </div>
>     </div>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: twig
    {# plugins/HelloWorldBundle/Views/FormTheme/Config/_config_helloworld_config_widget.html.twig #}
    <div class="panel panel-primary">
        <div class="panel-heading">
            <h3 class="panel-title">{{ 'mautic.config.tab.helloworld_config'|trans }}</h3>
        </div>
        <div class="panel-body">
            {% for field in form.children %}
                <div class="row">
                    <div class="col-md-6">
                        {{ form_row(field) }}
                    </div>
                </div>
            {% endfor %}
        </div>
    </div>
```

The PHP templating engine was replaced with Twig in M5.
